# Context matters

Consider the following sentence:

> Call 911, I need help.

It seems pretty straightforward. There's some context needed to understand it:
911 is a phone number in the United States that you can call (or text) for
emergency assistance. It can summon police cars, fire engines, ambulances,
search parties, and more.

It's a cry for help.

---

...But then consider if we start adding some context:

> I fell off my balcony.
>
> Call 911, I need help.

Not a lot has changed, this is still a cry for help, but with this context we
know exactly what kind of help is needed: immediate medical assistance.

---

Let's consider a different context:

> I listened to "Call me Maybe" 40 times today.
>
> Call 911, I need help.

Ok, now we've got a comedian. This is no longer a cry for help, but now we've
got a person critiquing their own choices and tastes, and exaggerating to make
it sound more funny.

---

Let's consider adding even more context:

Your friend told you that when they're feeling suicidal, they listen to pop
songs as a coping mechanism. You then receive these text messages:

> I listened to "Call me Maybe" 40 times today.
>
> Call 911, I need help.

We've come full circle, back to a cry for help.

---

# What to make of all this?

Context matters. In this post I've briefly touched on literary context, and a
little on social and historical context. The same sentence, word-for-word, can
mean wildly different things. Interestingly, these are not really "up to
everyone's individual interpretation," we _can_ get to the intent.

There's a lot of nuance packed in to human communication. It's a beautiful
thing. It's fundamental to art and society in general, but also fundamental to
understanding each other.

